Dear Shareholders, 
Today we announced that Aker1 has established Seetee2, a new com-
pany that will invest in exciting projects and companies throughout the 
Bitcoin ecosystem while keeping all of its liquid investable assets in bit-
coin3. The new company has a capitalisation of NOK 500 million, an 
amount we aim to increase significantly over time as we gain experience 
and identify exciting opportunities. 
Before I proceed with our story, I want to state upfront that I am 
aware that Bitcoin is often criticised for a number of perceived chal-
lenges, including its electricity consumption, its inability to scale with re-
spect to transactions, and its potential to facilitate anonymous illegiti-
mate payments. We believe that Bitcoin can be a solution rather than a 
problem for each of those, but we will get to the arguments for that later. 
Seetee’s strategy is threefold.  
First, we will use bitcoin as our treasury asset and join the community. 
In Bitcoin speak, we will be hodlers. We will be diﬀerent, but additive. 
Perhaps not as rebellious as the cypherpunks who invented Bitcoin. But 
  1 Aker has a 180-year history as an important industrial group in Norway. In 
1996, I proudly became the main shareholder and our family still owns 
more than two thirds of the company today. For more information, see 
https://www.akerasa.com/en.
  2 Contra terrene, C.T., or seetee, is a term from two science fiction books by 
Jack Williamson, Seetee Ship and Seetee Shock, where it refers to antimat-
ter. In physics, antimatter is the opposite of matter, which is the costliest 
material to produce according to some sources. Estimates range from hun-
dreds of billions to trillions of dollars per gram. A proper name for an am-
bitious company.
  3 As has become accepted practice, we use Bitcoin with uppercase ‘B’ to de-
note the protocol, software, and community, whereas bitcoin with lowercase 
‘b’ labels units of the currency itself.

NEW PAGE

much more progressive than most established corporates. The team at 
Seetee is already running open source bitcoin payment servers and will 
remain active contributors in the community. 
Second, Seetee will establish mining operations that transfer stranded 
or intermittent electricity without stable demand locally—wind, solar, 
hydro power— to economic assets that can be used anywhere. Bitcoin is, 
in our eyes, a load-balancing economic battery, and batteries are essential 
to the energy transition required to reach the targets of the Paris Agree-
ment. Our ambition is to be a valuable partner in new renewable projects. 
Third, we will build and invest in projects and companies in Bitcoin’s 
ecosystem. This is where our true passion is! Our home game is industri-
al applications. But we also believe nicely designed modern user inter-
faces will enable new applications wherever transactions happen. I am 
particularly interested in micropayments and how these may enable us to 
avoid usernames, passwords, and our personal data being monetised 
with, and often without, our knowledge or consent. 
Aker is part of the industrial establishment. As someone who started 
my career in the engine room of old fishing trawlers outside the coast of 
Norway and later in the Bering Sea in the United States, I’m immensely 
proud of what Aker has become, including the newly-formed industrial 
partnerships we have recently announced. But all large companies have 
one thing in common: they were once small. And many large companies 
are victims of their own success and end up small or defunct. I will do 
everything I can to keep Aker curious, innovative, and able to keep up 
with the times. 
After forty years in business, I have learned that you always have to 
keep an eye out for new opportunities and developments on the horizon. 
Seetee marks that horizon. It positions itself in the middle of an industry 
that could define the next several decades, much like the internet has 
2

NEW PAGE

done since the early 1990s. Seetee is an open invitation to push, pull, and 
poke life as we know it. To act like young entrepreneurs every day.  
On the shoulders of giants 
Aker’s decision to enter Bitcoin through Seetee is the result of a long and 
fundamental discussion about value. I have been drinking from the fire 
hose since last summer. While this letter is my way of expressing my 
thoughts on the matter, my insights are largely derived from reading arti-
cles and books, listening to podcasts and watching videos, as well as con-
versations with people around me. 
Our collective knowledge was derived from the extensive and brilliant 
material produced by others. These include Saifedean Ammous, Andreas 
Antonopolous, Adam Back, Nic Carter, Christopher Cole, Ray Dalio, 
Michael Green, Hugh Hendry, Reid Hoﬀman, Lacy Hunt, Jack Mallers, 
Raoul Pal, Chamath Palihapitiya, Anthony Pompliano, Pierre Rochard, 
Michael Saylor, Elisabeth Stark, Erik Townsend, and Grant Williams.  
Some of the people mentioned above are not believers in Bitcoin or in 
agreement with our investment thesis. We like to dive into competing 
narratives, and mention them here in case the reader wants to dive into 
the proverbial rabbit hole. It’s amazing to see that the cryptocurrency 
space attracts so many intelligent people of younger generations—much 
like the internet did when it was in its infancy. 
While precursors existed earlier, most would agree that Tim Berners-
Lee’s world wide web from 1990 was the start of what we recognise as 
the internet. Today, we take it for granted, but it has only been around 
for thirty years and the development has accelerated. Commentary on 
the internet’s lack of useful applications, and expert forecasts about its 
likely demise were frequent in the 1990s. Bitcoin was invented in 2009 
3

NEW PAGE

and will go through waves of development before it achieves the applica-
tion maturity that we are now used to on the internet. 
It’s a testament of our times that the internet has given many of us in-
stant access to information. But the real value comes when we let our cu-
riosity navigate beyond the algorithms for recommended content. You 
can only challenge preconceived idas when you are willing to go outside 
of your comfort zone. Bitcoin has inspired us to challenge our intuitive 
understanding of money.  
Having followed the cryptocurrency discourse for a while, we decided 
to reach out to the engineers who made it their mission to change the in-
ner workings of money more than two decades ago. This morning, we 
also  proudly  announced  that  Seetee  has  formed  a  partnership  with 
Blockstream, a global leader in Bitcoin and blockchain technology. Block-
stream’s leadership includes Adam Back, the inventor of Hashcash, a 
1997 precursor to Bitcoin. With Blockstream as our partner, we are con-
fident that we can navigate this industry. 
Not investing is the riskiest decision 
Risk is not an obvious concept. What’s commonly considered risky is fre-
quently not. And vice versa. We are used to thinking that cash is risk free. 
But it’s not. It’s implicitly taxed by inflation at a small rate every year.  
It adds up.  
Central bankers have magically agreed that they should target two per-
cent inflation, which implies that one third of your money’s worth is 
taxed away every twenty years. If it was three percent, almost half of it 
would be gone in that time. Now you should ask, why is it two, and not 
one or three? What’s special about two percent? 
The Federal Reserve has recently said it will target an average rate of 
two percent over time, which implies they will allow inflation to run 
4

NEW PAGE

above the target for some years. Inflation is very good for debtors. And 
the U.S. is the world’s largest debtor. They owe the bond owners. And 
they owe pensions. Both groups may be out of luck in the long term. 
One way to demonstrate this eﬀect is to price real estate in gold. The 
Schiller Case Home Price Index is the leading measure of U.S. residen-
tial real estate prices. Measured in gold, home prices in the U.S. are 
among the lowest they have been in the last hundred years4. In 2004, 
Norges Bank sold its last gold reserves citing poor historical returns. 
Apartments in the wealthiest part of Oslo are 35 percent cheaper today 
than they were in 2004 if priced in gold. And most would say real estate 
returns have been spectacular in that period. 
So what’s risk? It’s all relative. 
In 2018, Twitter hashtag #GetOﬀZero started to circulate. The main 
argument: it may be irresponsible not to include some exposure to bit-
coin given the asymmetric return properties. Even if you don’t get the un-
derlying cypherpunk and libertarian ideals, which I find most interesting, 
you still need to consider the potential diversification benefits of bitcoin: 
“Schmuck insurance” in the words of Social Capital’s Chamath Palihapi-
tiya.  
I’ve told this story before. On University Street in Seattle, Victor 
Rosselini  had  his  flagship  restaurant,  the  410.  My  mentor,  Bob 
Breskovitch, invited me there to discuss the topic of assisted suicide with 
five catholic priests. They taught me the importance of scrutiny. Of ques-
tioning your own assumptions, listening to others rather than arguing 
your position, analysing objectively before you decide.  
It was a life changing lunch.  
  4 https://www.longtermtrends.net/real-estate-gold-ratio/
5

NEW PAGE

As a young fisherman in the Northwest, far away from my native Nor-
way, diversification was not high on my agenda. As far as I was con-
cerned, diversification was a rich man’s game. Wealth preservation was 
something you could do once you had actual wealth to preserve. And 
since I didn’t have a penny to my name, I was going to focus on getting 
there. For years, I didn’t think about anything other than building Amer-
ican Seafoods. I was young. Determined. And surrounded by amazing 
people. 
In one way, I still stand by my younger self. If you’re certain about 
something, it pays oﬀ to focus and invest everything you have in it. But 
uncertainty and doubt build as time goes by. The more experience you 
have, the more you realise that nothing is certain. Everything is a bet with 
some associated probabilities. I should know—almost 80 percent of our 
portfolio was in oil and gas when the oil price went negative after 
Covid-19 hit.  
The pandemic. Nobody was prepared, despite the numerous warnings 
from scientists who said it was always a question of “when”, not “if.” Like 
most events, pandemics are rare in a lifetime, but frequent throughout 
history. Norway hadn’t experienced a pandemic in five generations, so it 
was hard to imagine.  
But it still happened.  
There are many benefits from owning a few companies in diﬀerent in-
dustries, but the price declines for all companies in a crisis. As we saw in 
March last year. Investors use bonds to diversify their portfolios. Nor-
way’s entire sovereign wealth fund is designed that way and it has worked 
well in recent history. But what if equities and bonds fall concurrently, 
which they have done for long periods historically? Before the Federal 
Reserve stepped in with unprecedented measures, that was about to hap-
pen one year ago.  
6

NEW PAGE

And it will probably happen again. And what happens if the central 
banks cannot stop the fall? What happens to the monetary system if 
people start questioning the stability of the reserve currency? Again, this 
has happened many times in history. 
I respond to today’s challenges as I would when I was a young man. I 
will always prefer to be a focused entrepreneur rather than a diversified 
investor, albeit with a tad bit more risk management and infinitely more 
academic rigour around me than I had earlier in my career. One of my 
favourite questions to people who ask me about the risk that’s inherent to 
our ideas: What about the risk of losing out on the upside?  
Young professionals know they are risking their careers if they say yes 
to what eventually becomes bad investments. That’s the name of the 
game. What you should really get fired for is saying no and losing out to 
once in a lifetime opportunities.  
Bitcoin may still go to zero. But it can also become the core of a new 
monetary architecture. If so, one bitcoin may be worth millions of dol-
lars. The asymmetry is interesting to a portfolio. People who know the 
most about bitcoin believe its future success is nearly inevitable. Whereas 
the other camp thinks that its failure is equally certain. Status quo is not 
possible.  
In the past months I have met many new people. One of them was 
Jack Mallers at Strike. He’s almost forty years younger than me. Experi-
encing his energy and enthusiasm was special. I felt old in his company, 
but also very emboldened: I lost out on mobile communications. I didn’t 
invest in internet companies. It was only recently that I started to invest 
in and build software companies (and I love it!) When I realised how 
much brainpower goes into Bitcoin, I saw the future in the making.  
7

NEW PAGE

Turning challenges to opportunities 
It  has  been  more  than  a  decade  since  the  pseudonymous  Satoshi 
Nakamoto published her/his/their paper, launching a new form of elec-
tronic money: bitcoin. I was sceptical of bitcoin for many years and my 
arguments were more or less consistent with everyone else’s: the net-
work’s electricity consumption is wasteful, the network is not scalable, its 
ideals of anonymity play into the hands of criminals, and so on.  
Money is a human invention, a social construct that only works since 
we collectively believe in it. In fact, the term “fiat money” is derived from 
the Latin word “fiat,” which means “an act of will that creates something 
without further eﬀort.” It’s a decree. Of all the previous attempts at digital 
currencies—and there were many—bitcoin was the one that broke out. 
In the beginning, it was worth zero point zero with as many zeros as you 
would like. But the more people believe in it, the more valuable it be-
comes. It’s a classic network eﬀect. 
Yes, Bitcoin consumes electricity. And pays for it at the locally prevail-
ing market prices. But we believe Bitcoin will enable applications that can 
create tremendous value. If so, it will be engrained into the social fabric 
and can’t go to zero since it’s immune to the political forces that destroys 
a currency. If this scenario plays out, we might change our focus from the 
price of a bitcoin to that of a satoshi (one bitcoin is one hundred million 
satoshi). If our phones are full of Bitcoin applications in five years, the 
network’s value is a Stairway to Heaven. 
So, is it wasteful?  
To achieve the ambitions in the Paris Agreement, we need to vastly in-
crease electrification of society, which will drive higher demand for elec-
trical power. But we need that electricity from renewable sources. Wind 
and solar are now cheap enough. But they are intermittent, meaning we 
can only produce when the wind blows and the sun shines. To transform 
8

NEW PAGE

it into baseload power that can be supplied at any given time, there is a 
tremendous need for batteries in all forms. 
Batteries are the missing piece in the puzzle to enable the energy tran-
sition. Remember, one liter of gasoline contains the equivalent of a little 
less than 10 kWh of energy. But less than 30 percent can be retained as 
useful power to move a vehicle because of the energy loss in an internal 
combustion engine. Regardless of where you live, I bet that the price per 
kWh of useful energy in gasoline is extremely high relative to electricity. 
You don’t buy gasoline because you want the cheapest energy. You buy it 
because it’s an excellent battery: Exxon is a battery company.  
The network consumes energy to ensure it remains secure. Remember, 
banks are government regulated custodians we pay fees to mediate trust. 
Bitcoin has solved that problem in a way where two parties can transact 
without verifying and trusting each other, circumventing the need for a 
third party like a bank. But the mechanism requires electricity.  
Enter the so-called miners. A miner uses electricity and is compensat-
ed with bitcoins. The financiers of mining operations will insist on using 
the cheapest energy and so by definition it will be electricity that has no 
better economic use. Bitcoin then acts like an economic battery. What 
otherwise was of little value locally, is turned into an economic asset that 
can be used globally. Extremely flexible demand from miners can opti-
mise the local supply and demand for electricity, which may accelerate 
the energy transition by improving the economics for new renewable 
projects. 
In discussing this with Adam Back and Chris Cook at Blockstream, I 
realised that they already have grid balancing technology that plays right 
into what we are trying to do at Aker Horizons. Sometimes we can 
pump water into hydro reservoirs and turn intermittent capacity into 
baseload. Sometimes we will produce green hydrogen and ammonia to 
reduce emissions in areas such as shipping. Bitcoin is less obvious, but 
9

NEW PAGE

I’m certain that it will enable many more renewable projects than would 
otherwise be possible. 
Come on, it consumes as much electricity as… 
Bitcoin’s electricity consumption must be analysed with respect to the 
future scenarios for the network. A lot of volatility is natural when mar-
ket participants are trying to forecast whether bitcoin is (i) a speculative 
bubble that will implode and be worthless, (ii) a digital scarce asset that 
could replace gold as a store of value, or (iii) a monetary architecture that 
will serve as the core trust and verification layer for numerous types of 
transactions. 
If you subscribe to the bubble narrative, you can rest safely knowing 
that the electricity consumption of Bitcoin will return to zero in the near 
future. Miners will not expend energy if their bitcoin rewards are ren-
dered worthless. If that’s your view, the discussion is moot. 
What if bitcoin replaces gold as an asset class for portfolio diversifica-
tion and store of value? Now, to all the gold bugs out there, this is not 
our prediction. Thousands of years of history as sound money means 
gold will likely remain attractive. We merely use this example to show 
that bitcoin’s scarcity would be suﬃcient and environmental price would 
be much lower. Also to be clear, this scenario is not why we are excited 
about Bitcoin, but it may be the easiest use case to understand. 
Current gold production is around 3,000 tons a year against an inven-
tory of about 200,000 tons, which is all the gold that has been produced 
throughout history. Of that, less than half is used for jewellery. The so 
called stock-to-flow ratio, which is a measure of scarcity where a higher 
number is better, is therefore currently around 56: at the current rate of 
production, it would take 56 years to double the inventory.  
What’s the comparable scarcity of bitcoin? The current block reward is 
6.25 bitcoin, which translates to about 900 new bitcoins every day, or 
328,500 per year. Given 18.6 million bitcoin in existence, the stock-to-
10

NEW PAGE

flow is currently approximately 56, which is on par with gold. But after 
the next halving, which will happen during the spring of 2024, the stock 
will be higher and the flow will be lower, so stock-to-flow will be more 
than double that of gold: Bitcoin will be much scarcer than our scarcest 
commodity. 
The estimated CO2 emission for producing new gold is more than 
100 million tons per year. Estimates vary, but recent studies put Bitcoin’s 
around 30 million tons annually. That’s less than one third of gold’s CO2 
emissions. And as renewables increase in the mix, Bitcoin’s CO2 emis-
sion intensity should drop significantly. Note that this is still disregarding 
the cost of refining and storing gold, as well as the negative impact land 
excavation in less compliant regions of the world has on both people and 
the environment. 
That leaves the most optimistic scenario for bitcoin. The one that gets 
us excited. Where Bitcoin’s ability to verify transactions between two 
parties without a trusted third party is used to build an ecosystem of ap-
plications. 
We are already exploring Blockstream’s Liquid and Elements products 
for industrial applications: foreign exchange, cash management, trade set-
tlements, emission verifications. But these are merely the obvious ones. 
The broader potential? Economic access for the unbanked through sav-
ing, spending, and lending services. Micropayments. Ownership of pri-
vate data. Technology that can disrupt compliance, which is now more 
than ten percent of bank employees and increasing. With the added ben-
efit of improved security and near-instant settlement. 
We obviously can’t know how this will play out. Many technologies 
will compete to solve these challenges. But we do know that many ap-
plications are too important to leave the verification to centralised sys-
tems owned by a corporation or controlled by a single country. 
11

NEW PAGE

So what about the electricity consumption in the scenario that we are 
most excited about? 
Clearly, the protocol is designed to cut the rewards in half every four 
years or so. Miners will only expend the electricity if it remains profitable. 
18.6 million of the maximum 21 million bitcoin exists today. So at the 
end of this year, 90 percent of the bitcoin is already in existence and paid 
for. Nine tenths of the infrastructure is there. 
Since the block reward goes down significantly over time, the miners 
would be willing to expend less electricity all things equal. Either the 
variable transaction fees or the price of bitcoin have to increase substan-
tially to compensate the miners. Since the block reward will approach 
zero, fees are the only viable long-term compensation mechanism. 
Since the transaction volume cannot increase given Bitcoin’s design, fee 
increases imply that the value of single transactions must be substantially 
higher than today. Presumably, that’s only possible if every transaction on 
the mainchain always involves very large amounts. Billions of smaller 
transactions would have to execute with acceptable security in second 
layers and sidechains.  
Again, all of this is only commercially and economically viable if the 
value of verifying large transactions without a trusted third party is suﬃ-
ciently high. This implies high demand for the network’s architecture, 
which again means that useful applications that create tremendous value 
have been built on top of the core network. Bitcoin can therefore only 
survive, and electricity will only be consumed, if the value created by the 
network is suﬃcient.  
Even completely disregarding Bitcoin acting as an economic battery 
that may improve the economics of renewable projects, which could accel-
erate the installation of intermittent sources of electricity, we don’t see a 
long-term problem related to Bitcoin’s electricity consumption. 
12

NEW PAGE

If it’s a bubble, it dies and consumes nothing. If it’s digital gold, it’s 
more eﬃcient and will emit much less than the asset it disrupts. And if 
it’s really successful, it’s because of demand from truly value creating ap-
plications that define our future and should be worth the electricity.  
Fine, but how will it scale? 
It is true that the Bitcoin mainchain cannot process the number of 
transactions that we depend on in modern society on its mainchain. But 
that’s because Satoshi Nakamoto’s design didn’t trade censorship resis-
tance and security for scalability. So scalability has to be solved by mak-
ing slight tradeoﬀs. 
Bitcoin doesn’t compromise. To ensure it’s open and secure, resistant to 
censorship and retroactive edits, it’s decentralised. But that’s a major 
drawback for scalability: Keeping one central spreadsheet up to date is 
obviously more eﬃcient than having numerous copies that all must be 
updated. A Bitcoin transaction takes about ten minutes to be confirmed 
and the design capacity is about seven transactions per second. Hardly 
suﬃcient to deal with today’s transaction volumes. 
But when I heard Jack Mallers talk about the Lightning layer I had an-
other Rosselini moment. The Lightning Network is built on top of Bit-
coin to make it scale. Transactions are done in bilateral channels that 
connect in a network and each channel is anchored to Bitcoin’s main-
chain with a single transaction. Lightning transactions complete in mil-
liseconds and can process millions per second with hardly any use of 
electricity. It therefore leverages Bitcoin’s security while increasing speed 
and reducing cost to levels not achievable by legacy payment rails. 
Does  a  global  distributed  network  of  bilateral  payment  channels 
sound impossible? In fact, that’s how spot foreign exchange works. Aker 
is the largest investor in Abelee, a non-bank liquidity provider in the for-
eign exchange market. We have spent a lot of time learning about the mi-
13

NEW PAGE

crostructure of financial markets. It’s only a matter of time before the old 
and the new world of money is seamlessly connected. 
On that night, with all of us on video from Chicago, Tel Aviv, and 
Oslo, Mallers sent dollars from a regular bank account in the U.S. via a 
wallet in Tel Aviv and further on to Oslo. Then, for fun, we sent it to an 
Aker colleague in Accra, Ghana. All of these transactions took place in-
stantaneously and at nearly no cost. This creates the possibility of pro-
grammable microtransactions, a payment stream, which can unlock lim-
itless opportunities. 
Applications will have diﬀerent needs and people will be willing to 
make slight tradeoﬀs to achieve those. I’m certain that, with time and cre-
ativity, applications that scale in sidechains and layers on top of Bitcoin 
will flourish. This ecosystem can provide massive scalability, and will only 
need to settle with the mainchain now and again. Like getting a stamp of 
approval from the source of absolute truth.  
As such, we believe Bitcoin will scale brilliantly in layers upon layers 
that make the trade oﬀs applicable to particular application. And as we 
will see in the next paragraphs, it may provide the opportunity to build 
an entirely new architecture for how information flows in society. 
Still, doesn’t bitcoin enable undesired activities? 
The first industry to take advantage of the internet’s potential was ar-
guably the pornographic industry. When we founded Cognite, a compa-
ny that enables siloed data and legacy systems to seamlessly interact to 
improve access and flow of industrial data, we did that with internet pio-
neer John Markus Lervik. He told us how his first company, Fast Search 
& Transfer—later acquired by Microsoft to power their search function-
ality—was constantly approached by the pornographic industry in the 
late nineties: they wanted access to the company’s leading and proprietary 
image compression algorithms. 
14

NEW PAGE

So when a new architecture for money emerges, it should not be en-
tirely unexpected that criminals became its first users. It was more eﬃ-
cient to use cryptocurrencies than cash, which has always been and is still 
available for those who want a bearer asset to conduct illegal activities. 
But when the internet went mainstream it found other legitimate uses. 
We see the same development with cryptocurrencies: criminal use of bit-
coin is relatively minuscule. 
In fact, the libertarian ideals of the cypherpunk movement holds 
promise and valuable ideas for the world today. On the one hand, our ba-
sic human rights include freedom of speech, religion, assembly, and asso-
ciation; and right to equal protection of the law. As such, information 
about the individual and his or her actions and transactions should be 
available to those with a legal right to access. On the other hand, as has 
been so eloquently exposed by Shoshana Zuboﬀ in her book, The Age of 
Surveillance Capitalism, the internet behemoths have turned us into the 
product. I’m certain we need to fight back against unlawful access to in-
formation, and that requires a new architecture. 
On a personal note, I am frequently frustrated that I give away user-
names, passwords, locations, credit card details and other information to 
read newspapers or watch movies. I’m fascinated by the prospect of bit-
coin Lightning wallets that may enable instant credit via micropayments 
without the need to oﬀer personal information that my counterpart can 
monetise without approval or compensation. 
So if you insist on being anonymous, doesn’t that mean you are hiding 
from the law? Of course not. To the contrary, I believe Bitcoin holds the 
promise of much more sophisticated KYC (know your customer) and 
AML (anti money laundering) procedures that enables access when 
there is legal grounds but keeps everything anonymous in all other cir-
cumstances. After all, the legacy bank systems are themselves arcane, 
complex, and vulnerable, which means there is room for innovation.  
15

NEW PAGE

Lastly, let’s also remember that the current system doesn’t work for 
everybody. As a business man in my sixties, I have access. The current 
system works relatively well from my perspective. But what about the 
poor but hard working farmer? What about the billions of unbanked 
that have no way of accessing a bank account, much less credit to build 
their lives? 
From their perspective, what we have today clearly doesn’t work. And 
the regulatory patchwork makes it even harder for them. It’s unaccept-
able. Bitcoin’s protocol should enable an ecosystem of applications that 
may change that because many more people will have access to mobile 
phones and the internet than have access to traditional financial in-
frastructure. 
One hundred years ago, in the Roaring Twenties, the young Howard 
Hughes produced Hell’s Angels, a World War I epic famous for its spec-
tacular aerial battle scenes. (It was originally conceived as a silent starring 
Greta Nissen, a Norwegian actress who was replaced due to her accent 
when Hughes decided the movie was going to have dialogue.) The war 
scenes were filmed in California and one problem kept delaying and in-
creasing the production cost: the lack of clouds meant perspective was 
lost and so the planes appeared slow in the skies. Signs were put up that 
said “War Postponed—No Clouds Today!” 
The reference point matters for your perspective. 
Progress is inevitable 
Let me tell you a story about progress. In the early nineties, I was on hol-
iday in Spain and both wanted and needed access to the daily fishing re-
ports that I was used to getting by fax from the vessels in Alaska. To my 
great surprise the local electronic stores didn’t sell fax machines. But lo 
and behold, I found a hairdresser in Marbella who owned one for rea-
16

NEW PAGE

sons I still can’t imagine. He was not an eager seller, but I was a persistent 
buyer. I bought it from him and paid a silly price to get the information I 
needed. I saw him at the bar that night, enthusiastically laughing and 
drinking with his friends—there was no doubt he was a happy seller that 
day. 
Smart phones were still fifteen years oﬀ. Progress is obvious after the 
fact. 
At the end of the Second World War, world leaders agreed that all 
currencies could be exchanged at a fixed rate to U.S. dollars, and dollars 
would be redeemable for a certain weight of gold. The dollar became the 
world’s reserve currency, replacing the British sterling, which once re-
placed the French livre. For 6,000 years, gold had been the most reliable 
store of value. As we saw for real estate, the price of various goods and as-
sets don’t change as much when measured in gold as opposed to fiat cur-
rency.  
When Nixon abandoned the gold standard in 1971, a lot changed fun-
damentally.5 Interest rates first spiked and have since fallen and caused a 
forty year perpetual bull market for bonds. The United States have 
ramped up significant debt and considerable pension liabilities. There is 
no shortage of global challenges either: rising inequality, climate change. 
More debt is probably the only source of funding these crises. As Warren 
Buﬀet famously said:“the “U.S. debt isn’t going to be repaid; it’s going to 
be refunded.” The end game is clear. There will be a bond fire.  
Gold survives bond fires. It cannot be increased to deflate the value 
(scarce), it is not perishable and can withstand time and use (durable), it 
can easily be stored and transported (portable), the value of any gold 
  5 While causality is not guaranteed for all of these correlations, readers 
should browse wtfhappenedin1971.com for a set of interesting charts.
17

NEW PAGE

item can easily be related to another independent of form (fungible), and 
it can be divided into smaller amounts and re-assembled without loss 
(divisible). Bitcoin is like gold, but better.  
Wells Fargo, once Warren Buﬀett’s favourite bank, was founded in 
1852. The bank used a stagecoach to transport valuables ranging from 
letters to gold, contracts to checks, in Wells Fargo’s green treasure box 
under the driver’s seat. The company employed and contracted shotgun 
messengers to guard them. “The kind of men you could depend on if you 
got into a fix,” according to Wells Fargo’s website.  
For thousands of years, societies have mined for gold in all corners of 
the world with great sacrifices by people and the environment — even 
today. Once the gold is above ground, it must be protected at all cost. 
While I believe we do it in more sophisticated ways than Wells Fargo’s 
shotgun messengers, the principle remains the same. Once again, large 
capital investments and high operational costs. Waste. Ineﬃciency. 
We need progress.  
Scarcity drives prices, whether we talk about watches or guitars, wine 
or cars, paintings or sculptures—all physical assets. Making digital assets 
used to mean it could be copied for free. Not anymore. Bitcoin can be 
verified, divided, re-assembled, stored, and transported at virtually no 
cost. It’s the perfect scarce digital asset. By design. All that’s required to 
keep the network running, is allocating the cheapest electricity in the 
world. Electricity secures the network. No trusted parties or people with 
guns are needed.  
I call that progress.  
Like gold, bitcoin has the ability to protect us against politicians who 
have the power to destroy our monetary base. Is that really necessary, you 
might ask? Ask Soviet pensioners whose policies are still honoured by 
the Russian government, although the value of those payments is bupkis 
because of hyperinflation in the 1990s. Strike up a conversation with a 
18

NEW PAGE

Turkish worker the next time you are on vacation and ask how it feels to 
have your currency depreciate by almost 50 percent against the dollar in 
a single year. It has happened, it happens, and will happen again.  
Many argue that governments may ban bitcoin, or that new regulation 
will destroy it. While it would require near global coordination, which 
seems implausible, we cannot disregard that the introduction of more 
friction for adoption, for example a ban on exchanges to limit people’s 
ability to buy or sell, would make the asset less attractive. But we remain 
unconvinced and believe that proper regulation may actually increase in-
terest in cryptocurrencies as institutions can participate. 
Let us also remember that new financial applications that may be en-
abled by Bitcoin can improve lives. According to the World Bank, more 
than half of the global population has access to the internet today and 
coverage is increasing rapidly. Still, billions of people can’t get access to a 
bank account. And even if they can, it’s costly, cumbersome and slow. The 
current system mostly works, at least for privileged people in our part of 
the world. But banks remain inaccessible institutions for many. Let us all 
hope that can change. 
The direction is clear: finance will be disrupted as surely as fossil fuels 
will be. The question is not if, but when. But I will oﬀer two quotes as a 
reminder. The first is for the skeptics: George Bernhard Shaw, the Nobel 
winning playwright who was inspired and influenced by our own Henrik 
Ibsen, said: “progress is impossible without change, and those who cannot 
change their minds cannot change anything.” And for those who are al-
ready convinced, recall late singer-songwriter Tom Petty’s lyrics and re-
member that “the waiting is the hardest part.”  
19

NEW PAGE

Joining the community 
“Software is eating the world,” wrote venture capitalist Marc Andreessen 
in 2011. Much later, we saw it coming and as a consequence have found-
ed three software companies in our group. Seetee will be the fourth. 
Again, it is not surprising to me that Andreessen Horowitz was one of 
the earliest believers in bitcoin, the largest investors in the space, and the 
first investors in Coinbase. 
I am very happy that Sverke Lorgen, Snorre Lorgen, and Magnus 
Granath have decided to join Seetee. The team has been working, indi-
vidually and as a group, on Bitcoin and related projects for many years al-
ready. Norwegians may remember Snorre and Sverke from their partici-
pation in the 1992 Summer Olympics, but we also knew the brothers to 
be early believers in Bitcoin from a blockchain seminar they hosted years 
ago. Previously, they spent more than a decade trading electricity. Mag-
nus’ background is in education and technology, and he has been im-
mersed in the Bitcoin community since 2013. 
I realise that in some ways Aker is very late to this space. Obviously, 
some people understood the potential of this invention many years ago. 
But in so many other ways, as is demonstrated in everyday conversations 
with other people in business, we are also relatively early. My mind spins 
as I’m thinking about the opportunities and potential of this space. No 
doubt there will be disappointments. No doubt there will be hardships. 
And there will always be surprising twists and turns.  
We believe the Bitcoin network has a real first mover advantage. Social 
adaptation will determine the future of it on a wider scale. People who 
are a lot smarter than us believe that bitcoin can increase in value by 10, 
or even 50 times, in the coming years. Given the huge lead, we are not 
convinced that other cryptocurrencies can challenge bitcoin given the 
20

NEW PAGE

strong network eﬀects; however, there is no such thing as certainty so we 
will remain painfully alert and passionately curious. 
In any case, we have to expect a lot of volatility. But we don’t care be-
cause we believe in the long-term functionality. We would never recom-
mend relatives and friends to invest everything they have in bitcoin. It is a 
good rule of thumb to remember that there is uncertainty in everything. 
It's like a trial. You can be one hundred percent sure that you are correct, 
but even then, it is hardly more than eighty percent certain that you are 
right. The lawyers call it litigation risk.  
Aker is the first major company in Scandinavia to allocate capital to 
bitcoin. We’re not going to be the last. We don’t claim to know every-
thing about the subject. And as we have learned something, we realise 
that the concept of money is in essence somehow unknowable and con-
stantly changing. Niels Bohr, the Danish Nobel Prize winner who made 
significant contributions to our understanding of atomic structure, once 
said about quantum mechanics: “If you think you understand it, that 
only shows you don’t know the first thing about it”.  
Perhaps money is the same. But we are eager to learn more. 
And we are truly excited about the prospect of being part of a commu-
nity that is so full of talent. Intelligence. Creativity. Ambition. Youth. We 
can provide access to real-life industrial problems that may be diﬃcult to 
access elsewhere. We are always curious and eager to learn. And more 
importantly, when we believe in something or someone, we are prepared 
to look like idiots for extended periods of time. In the words of the late 
Norwegian politician Einar Førde, a brilliant rhetoric who represented 
the Labor party, “you have to put yourself in the position to be labeled an 
idiot now and then—or else life would become too boring!” 
But we are not alone in seeing a new monetary architecture on the 
horizon. Last year, bitcoin made significant progress towards becoming a 
mainstream investment. When investors with indisputable track records, 
21

NEW PAGE

like Paul Tudor Jones and Stanley Druckenmiller, disclose that they have 
significant positions, everybody with a curious brain should pay atten-
tion. Companies like Tesla, Mass Mutual, Microstrategy, and Square 
have flagged positions, while Fidelity, Blackrock, Morgan Stanley, and 
other asset management behemoths are working to launch investment 
products for cryptocurrencies, which would make it easier for investors.  
We believe bitcoin is going to be on the right side of history. But we 
should remind ourselves that some will resist forcefully: Norway was the 
last country in Europe to adopt colour tv in 1972, several years after the 
technology was available. The brilliant Einar Førde famously addressed 
the Norwegian Constituent Assembly6 and said “[protesting colour tv is 
equivalent to saying] we accept that sin has come to Earth, but we don’t 
want it in colour.” 
The future is defined by the young. Therefore, I encourage entrepre-
neurs with knowledge about, experience with, and big ideas and ambi-
tions for Bitcoin to reach out to me and the others at Seetee. The bigger 
the dream, the more we listen, especially when those ideas have an indus-
trial angle or can be a force for good. We are not just going to wait for the 
future—we want to join in building it as well! 
Best regards, 
Kjell Inge Røkke 
 
PS! I have written this letter and founded Seetee in close collaboration 
with Ola Snøve, who I have known and worked with for nearly fifteen 
years. He has contributed ten percent of the capital and will be Seetee’s 
Executive Chairman. 
  6 https://www.nrk.no/video/debatt-om-fargefjernsyn_257827
22

NEW PAGE

While our intellects have been shaped by diﬀerent paths, we are equal 
in our curiosity and ambition. In our daily conversations about business, 
the universe, and everything in between, Bitcoin gradually became more 
prominent last year.  
As new ideas were created, discussed, and refined, our beliefs aligned 
over time. This letter reflects the evolution of those conversations and 
must be read in that context. While the letter is now static, the discus-
sions will continue. 
One day, Ola was asked by one of our colleagues whether Seetee was 
too risky. He replied, “if this is too risky for Aker, it would be insanity for 
me. But to get long-term exposure to bitcoin, the ability to increase that 
with mining, and the chance to create new companies with some of the 
brightest minds in the world, is a once in a lifetime opportunity. It would 
be insane not to do it.” 
I have seen Ola develop over many years. During that time he has been 
an important contributor to many of our companies, as well as Aker’s 
transformation in recent years. Given his willingness to invest a signifi-
cant part of his net worth, and to be the company’s Executive Chairman, 
I am optimistic about our common journey with Seetee.
23

NEW PAGE